# [Understanding the Linux Virtual Memory Management](https://www.kernel.org/doc/gorman/html/understand/index.html)

## ch12 [Shared Memory Virtual Filesystem](https://www.kernel.org/doc/gorman/html/understand/understand015.html)

Sharing a region region of memory backed by a file or device is simply a case of calling `mmap()` with the `MAP_SHARED` flag. However, there are two important cases where an anonymous region needs to be shared between processes. The first is when mmap() with MAP_SHARED but no file backing. These regions will be shared between a parent and child process after a fork() is executed. The second is when a region is explicitly setting them up with shmget() and attached to the virtual address space with shmat().
> @todo shmat and shmget, learn it with tlpi !

Every inode in the filesystem is placed on a linked list called shmem_inodes so that they may always be easily located. This allows the same file-based interface to be used without treating anonymous pages as a special case.
> tmpfs is cool : same interface with regular file, and share files

The filesystem comes in two variations called shm and tmpfs. They both share core functionality and mainly differ in what they are used for. `shm` is for use by the kernel for creating file backings for anonymous pages and for backing regions created by shmget(). This filesystem is mounted by kern_mount() so that it is mounted internally and not visible to users. tmpfs is a temporary filesystem that may be optionally mounted on /tmp/ to have a fast RAM-based temporary filesystem. A secondary use for tmpfs is to mount it on /dev/shm/. Processes that mmap() files in the tmpfs filesystem will be able to share information between them as an alternative to System V IPC mechanisms. Regardless of the type of use, tmpfs must be explicitly mounted by the system administrator.
> shm and tmpfs : 
> shm : shmget(), kern_mount, not visible to users
> tmpfs : mounted on /tmp and /dev/shm

#### 12.1  Initialising the Virtual Filesystem
> 0. init_tmpfs : replace with init_shmem
> 1. struct shmem_inode_info

#### 12.2 Using `shmem` Functions
> introduce all the operations

Different structs contain pointers for shmem specific functions. In all cases, `tmpfs` and `shm` share the same structs.
> @todo where is the evidence of `tmpfs` and `shm`

For faulting in pages and writing them to backing storage, two structs called `shmem_aops` and `shmem_vm_ops` of type struct address_space_operations and struct vm_operations_struct respectively are declared.

#### 12.3  Creating Files in `tmpfs`

#### 12.4  Page Faulting within a Virtual File

###### 12.4.1  Locating Swapped Pages

###### 12.4.2  Writing Pages to Swap
> what's framework :
> shmem_getpage 
>     1. find_lock_entry
>     2. shmem_swapin_page
>     3. shmem_alloc_and_acct_page

> 1. shmem_aops doesn't contains the readpage, but there are shmem_writepage, it's asymetric ?
>     1. pgfault happens for mapped area
>     2. even file in /tmp may mmap(2) into user space, that why we need shmem_pg
>     3. shmem_writepage is needed because page reclaim
>     4. what if a page is reclaimed and swapped out into the cache ? the swap in will be processed by the shmem_getpage !

#### 12.5  File Operations in tmpfs
> easy 

#### 12.6  Inode Operations in tmpfs
> inode_operations doesn't contains shmem_truncate()

#### 12.7  Setting up Shared Regions

