# Concurrent Queues and the ABA Problem

## 10.1 Introduction
A pool can be bounded or unbounded

Pool methods may be total, partial, or synchronous

- A method is **total** if calls do not wait for certain conditions to become true.
For example, a get() call that tries to remove an item from an empty pool
immediately returns a failure code or throws an exception. If the pool is
bounded, a total set() that tries to add an item to a full pool immediately
returns a failure code or an exception. A total interface makes sense when
the producer (or consumer) thread has something better to do than wait
for the method call to take effect

- A method is partial if calls may wait for conditions to hold. For example,
a partial get() call that tries to remove an item from an empty pool blocks
until an item is available to return. If the pool is bounded, a partial set()
call that tries to add an item to a full pool blocks until an empty slot is
available to fill. A partial interface makes sense when the producer
(or consumer) has nothing better to do than to wait for the pool to become nonfull
(or nonempty).

- A method is synchronous if it waits for another method to overlap its call
interval. For example, in a synchronous pool, a method call that adds an
item to the pool is blocked until that item is removed by another method
call. Symmetrically, a method call that removes an item from the pool is
blocked until another method call makes an item available to be removed.
(*Such methods are partial*.) Synchronous pools are used for communication
in programming languages such as CSP and Ada in which threads
rendezvous to exchange information.
> 其实不知道和partial 的关系

## 10.2 Queues


## 10.3 A Bounded Partial Queue
Unlike the list algorithms in Chapter 9,
in which the same nodes always act as sentinels, the queue
repeatedly replaces the sentinel node.

We use two distinct locks, `enqLock` and
`deqLock`, to ensure that at most one enqueuer, and at most one dequeuer at a
time can manipulate the queue object’s fields. Using two locks instead of one
ensures that an enqueuer does not lock out a dequeuer unnecessarily, and vice
versa. *Each lock has an associated condition field*. The enqLock is associated with
the *notFullCondition* condition, used to notify waiting dequeuers when the
queue is no longer full. The deqLock is associated with *notEmptyCondition*,
used to notify waiting enqueuers when the queue is no longer empty.

> full 和 empty 的lock 以及各种condition 的关系是什么 ?

Since the queue is bounded, we must keep track of the number of empty slots.
The size field is an AtomicInteger that tracks the number of objects currently in the queue.
This field is decremented by `deq()` calls and incremented by `enq()` calls.


## 10.4 An Unbounded Total Queue
The representation is the same
as the bounded queue, except there is no need to count the number of items in
the queue, or to provide conditions on which to wait.

## 10.5 An Unbounded Lock-Free Queue
This is a real-world example of the “helping” technique we first saw in the universal
construction of Chapter 6.
> 啊! Chapter 6 还讲过 helping ?

## 10.6 Memory Reclamation and the ABA Problem
Finally, if the garbage collection process is not lock-free, we might want to supply our own
lock-free memory reclamation.
> 是在是想不到，会有什么东西不是lock free的，所有的method 都没有办法在有限步内执行完成吗?

*A natural way to recycle nodes in a lock-free manner is to have each thread
maintain its own private free list of unused queue entries*

When an enqueuing thread needs a new node, it tries to remove one from the
thread-local free list. If the free list is empty, it simply allocates a node using
the new operator. When a dequeuing thread is ready to retire a node, it links it
back onto the thread-local list. Because the list is thread-local, there is no need
for expensive synchronization.
> enqueue 从本地拿，dequeue 放回本地，不够就new

什么叫做ABA ?
> 之前分析问题的基本方法，那就是read 马上跟上 compareAndSet 函数，
> 之前没有出现问题，是因为没有回收节点，每次创建的都是新的节点。

One straightforward way to fix this problem(ABA) is to tag each atomic reference
with a unique stamp.
> 其实，很简单，将每一个对象添加一个读写计数，进而recycle没有就可以发现。

The ABA problem can occur in many synchronization scenarios, not just those
involving conditional synchronization. For example, it can occur when using
only loads and stores. *Conditional synchronization operations such as loadlinked/store-conditional*, available on some architectures (see Appendix B), avoid
ABA by testing not whether a value is the same at two points in time, but whether
the value has ever changed between those points.


## 10.6.1 A Naive Synchronous Queue
We now turn our attention to an even tighter kind of synchronization. One or
more producer threads produce items to be removed, in first-in-first-out order,
by one or more consumer threads. Here, however, *producers and consumers rendezvous* with one another: a producer that puts an item in the queue blocks until
that item is removed by a consumer, and vice versa. 

> 相当于，queue的容量为 1

deq() 持有一个锁，从而实现 deq() 互斥，但是enqueue不同，利用的是 enqueuing 互斥

    In all cases, before this method can return the current thread must re-acquire the lock associated with this condition. When the thread returns it is *guaranteed* to hold this lock.

醒来的时候，需要持有锁，所以在enq() 中间也是含有unlock的。

## 10.7 Dual Data Structures
To reduce the synchronization overheads of the synchronous queue, we consider
an alternative synchronous queue implementation that splits enq() and deq()
methods into two steps. Here is how a dequeuer tries to remove an item from an
empty queue.
1. In the first step, it puts a *reservation object* in the queue, indicating that the dequeuer is waiting for an enqueuer with which to rendezvous. The
dequeuer then spins on a flag in the reservation. 
2. Later, when an enqueuer discovers the reservation, it fulfills the reservation by depositing an item and notifying
the dequeuer by setting the reservation’s flag. *Similarly*, an enqueuer can wait
for a rendezvous partner by creating its own reservation, and spinning on the
reservation’s flag. At any time the queue itself contains either *enq() reservations*,
*deq() reservations*, or it is empty
> 相当于使用lock free 的方法实现之前所分析的容量为1的queue 的内容，但是添加了一 reservation 的操作

This structure is called a **dual data structure**, since the methods take effect
in two stages, reservation and fulfillment. It has a number of nice properties.
1. First, waiting threads can spin on a _locally cached flag_, which we have seen is
essential for scalability. 
2. Second, it ensures _fairness_ in a natural way. Reservations
are queued in the order they arrive, ensuring that requests are fulfilled in the same
order. Note that this data structure is linearizable, since each partial method call
can be ordered when it is fulfilled

The queue is implemented as a list of nodes, where a node represents either an
item waiting to be dequeued, or a reservation waiting to be fulfilled (Fig. 10.18).
A node’s type field indicates which. At any time, all queue nodes have the same
type: either the queue consists entirely of items waiting to be dequeued, or
entirely of reservations waiting to be fulfilled.

When an item is enqueued, the node’s item field holds the item, which is reset
to `null` when that item is dequeued. When a reservation is enqueued, the node’s
item field is `null`, and is reset to an item when fulfilled by an enqueuer.
> list 中间存在 item 和 reservation 两种属性的节点



We now turn our attention to an even tighter kind of synchronization. One or
more producer threads produce items to be removed, in first-in-first-out order,
by one or more consumer threads. Here, however, producers and consumers rendezvous with one another:
a producer that puts an item in the queue blocks until that item is removed by a consumer, and vice versa. 
> 不是容量限制的问题，而是首先定义了什么叫做 : tighter kind of synchronization
> ? 从代码中间来看，如果 comsummer 也就是deq 直接返回，根本不会采用其他的任何措施。(认为这是所谓的官方的代码的问题，从书上的表述，deq() 就是需要被阻塞的)

rendezvous synchronization

## 补充资料

#### https://hydraconf.com/2019/talks/lnhqpq8cz5kzgjmhlqpic/
关于dual data structure
1. Correct operations have to appear to happen “all at once” 
2. Easiest way to do that is with locks or, in Java, synchronized blocks or methods:
```
synchronized(Q) {    perform operation}
```
3. Performs badly if scheduler preempts a thread that holds a lock

- Dequeuer (in general, consumer) removes data or inserts reservation
- Enqueuer (in general, producer) inserts data or removes and satisfies reservation

> 似乎不是容量的问题，体现何为 synchronized 

