# Concurrent Stacks and Elimination

Surprisingly, perhaps, stacks are not inherently sequential. In this chapter, we
show how to implement concurrent stacks that can achieve a high degree of parallelism.
As a first step, we consider how to build a lock-free stack in which pushes
and pops synchronize at a single location.

## 11.2 An Unbounded Lock-Free Stack

> 描述算法实现

- A `pop()` call that tries to remove an item from an empty stack throws an exception.
- A `push()` method creates a new node, and
- then calls `tryPush()` to try to swing the top reference from the current top-of-stack to its successor.
If tryPush() succeeds, push() returns, and if not, the tryPush() attempt
is repeated after backing off. The pop() method calls tryPop(), which uses
compareAndSet() to try to remove the first node from the stack. If it succeeds,
it returns the node, otherwise it returns null.

> 分析算法

This implementation is lock-free because a thread fails to complete a push() or
pop() method call only if there were infinitely many successful calls that modified
the top of the stack.
> 既然如此，所以上不上锁其实是lock free 的判定根本没有关系的吗 ?

The linearization point of both the push() and the pop()
methods is the successful compareAndSet(), or the throwing of the exception,
in Line 3, in case of a pop() on an empty stack.

Note that the compareAndSet()
call by pop() does not have an **ABA problem** (see Chapter 10) because the Java
garbage collector ensures that a node cannot be reused by one thread, as long as
that node is accessible to another thread. Designing a lock-free stack that avoids
the ABA problem without a garbage collector is left as an exercise.
> TODO ABA problem



## 11.3 Eliminati
The LockFreeStack implementation scales poorly, not so much because the
stack’s top field is a source of contention, but primarily because it is a sequential bottleneck:
method calls can proceed only one after the other, ordered by
successful compareAndSet() calls applied to the stack’s top field.
> 所以并行的核心思想是什么 ? lock free or ?

To make the stack parallel, we
exploit this simple observation: if a push() is immediately followed by a pop(),
the two operations cancel out, and the stack’s state does not change. It is as if
both operations never happened. If one could somehow cause concurrent pairs
of pushes and pops to cancel, then threads calling push() could exchange values with threads calling pop(), without ever modifying the stack itself. These two
calls would eliminate one another.
> 蛇皮的观察

A thread whose call cannot be eliminated, either because it has
failed to find a partner, or found a partner with the wrong kind of method call
(such as a push() meeting a push()), can either try again to eliminate at a new
location, or can access the shared LockFreeStack

The combined data structure,
array, and shared stack, is **linearizable** because the shared stack is linearizable,
and the eliminated calls can be ordered as if they happened at the point in which
they exchanged values.

We can use the `EliminationArray` as a backoff scheme on a shared
`LockFreeStack`. Each thread first accesses the LockFreeStack, and if it fails
to complete its call (that is, the compareAndSet() attempt fails), it attempts to
eliminate its call using the array instead of simply backing off. If it fails to eliminate itself, it calls the LockFreeStack again, and so on. We call this structure an
EliminationBackoffStack.

## 11.4 The Elimination Backoff Stack
but must avoid a situation in which a thread can make a sporting offer to more than one other thread. We do
so by implementing the `EliminationArray` using coordination structures called
*exchangers*, objects that allow exactly two threads (and no more) to rendezvous
and exchange values

We already saw how to exchange values using locks in the synchronous queue
of *Chapter 10*. Here, we need a lock-free exchange, one in which threads spin
rather than block, as we expect them to wait only for very short durations.
> 使用lock exchange values, 为什么不是 atomic 的操作 ?


#### 11.4.1 A Lock-Free Exchanger
There are many other possible policies. For example, one can devise a more
elaborate range selection policy, vary the delays on the exchangers dynamically,
add additional backoff delays before accessing the shared stack, and control
whether to access the shared stack or the array dynamically. We leave these as
exercises.

## 11.5 Chapter Notes
> skip


elimination 其实表示的当时正在操作的push 和 pop
