# Universality of Consensus

## 6.1 Introduction
In Chapter 5, we considered a simple technique for proving statements of the
form “there is no wait-free implementation of X by Y.” We considered object
classes with *deterministic sequential specifications*.

In a system of n or more concurrent threads, it is impossible to construct a
wait-free implementation of an object with consensus number n from an object
with a lower consensus number.
*The same result holds for lock-free implementations,
and henceforth unless we explicitly state otherwise, it will be implied that
a result that holds for wait-free implementations holds for lock-free ones.*
> ? 对于证明来说，难道lock-free 不是将条件放开了，导致证明更难!

The impossibility results of Chapter 5 do not by any means imply that wait-free synchronization is impossible or infeasible.
In this chapter, we show that there exist classes of objects that are **universal**: given sufficiently many of them, one can
construct a wait-free linearizable implementation of any concurrent object.

A class is **universal** in a system of n threads if, and only if it has a consensus
number greater than or equal to n.
> universal 也是需要限制 thread 数量的

A machine architecture or programming language is computationally powerful enough to support arbitrary wait-free synchronization if, and
only if it provides objects of a **universal** class as primitives.

For example, modern multiprocessor machines that provide a `compareAndSet()` operation are universal for any number of threads:
they can implement any concurrent object in a wait-free manner。

This chapter describes how to use consensus objects to build a universal construction that implements any concurrent object.
The chapter does not describe practical techniques for implementing wait-free objects.

## 6.2 Universality
A class C is **universal** if one can construct a wait-free implementation of any
object from some number of objects of C and some number of read–write registers.
> 是不是说，universal 就是 consensus number 无限大 ?

## 6.3 A Lock-Free Universal Construction
Creating a reusable consensus object, or even one whose decision is readable, is not a simple
task. It is essentially the same problem as the universal construction we are about to design. For
example, consider the queue-based consensus protocol in Chapter 5. It is not obvious how to use
a `Queue` to allow repeated reading of the consensus object state after it is decided
> 为什么consensus object state 确定之后，repeated reading ..... 

## 6.4 A Wait-Free Universal Construction
We must guarantee that every thread completes an `apply()`
call within a finite number of steps, that is, no thread starves. 

To guarantee this property, threads making progress must **help** less fortunate threads to complete
their calls. This helping pattern will show up later in a specialized form in other
wait-free algorithms.

1. We add an n-element announce[] array, where `announce[i]` is the node thread `i` is currently trying to append to the list.
Initially, all entries refer to the sentinel node, which has a sequence number 1. A thread `i` announces a node when it stores the node in `announce[i]`.

2. To execute `apply()`, a thread first announces its new node. This step ensures
that if the thread itself does not succeed in appending its node onto the list,
some other thread will append that node on its behalf.

## 补充内容
- [consensus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consensus_(computer_science) 不是我们想要的consensus

#### https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/241421/how-can-i-make-a-universal-construction-more-efficient
Jargon:
- wait-free - regardless of the number of threads or the scheduler's decision making, `apply` will terminate in a provably bounded number of instructions executed for that thread.
- lock-free - same as above, but admits the possibility of an unbounded execution time, only in the case that an unbounded number of apply operations are getting done in other threads. Typically, optimistic synchronization schemes fall into this category.
> 在当前的语境下，就是指的是 apply


## http://coldattic.info/post/88/

What I discovered is that consistency models are divided into two categories: that lean to multithreading (shared memory multiprocessor systems), and to "multi-machine" (distributed systems). 

All other consistency models are opposite to the *No Consistency* in the following sense.
They all assume that the method calls may be **re-arranged in a single-threaded sequence** that *is correct with respect to the object's specification.*
Let's call it arranged correctly in the rest of the post. For example, a set of pets that adheres to any consistency model described below can't tell us that it contains a cow, if only dogs were added to it.
> 现在的问题是: arrange 到底是为了什么 ?
> 重新排列成为一个没有任何overlap的，但是依旧可以满足程序的要求的 ?。
> overlap 的排列关系如何确定 ?

An execution is strongly consistent (linearizable) if the method calls can be correctly arranged in a sequence that retains the order of calls that do not overlap in time no matter which thread calls them.
> 所有的call 只要没有overlap 在时间上，顺序需要保证

An execution is sequentially consistent if the method calls can be correctly arranged in a sequence that retains the order of method calls within each thread.
> 维持在每一个线程内部的call 的顺序

An execution is quiescently consistent if the method calls can be correctly arranged in a sequence that retains the order of the calls separated by quiescence (a period of time when no method is running in any thread).
> 使用 quiescence 来保持顺序


2. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/26089729/what-are-the-differences-between-sequential-consistency-and-quiescent-consistenc

3. https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/54748/why-is-quiescent-consistency-compositional-but-sequential-consistency-is-not
> 组合性质证明

4. http://fpl.cs.depaul.edu/jriely/papers/2014-qqc-talk.pdf

“Each method call should appear to take effect instantaneously at some moment between its invocation and response

for every invocation, exists a **linearization point** such that
1. linearization point is between call and return
2. real-time order corresponds to some sequential execution

**Composition** of the histories of two non-interfering linearizable objects is linearizable

Quiescent Consistency
1. *Weaker than Linearizability*
2. Compositional
3. Method calls separated by a period of quiescence should appear to take effect in their real-time order.

## https://medium.com/@eulerfx/universality-of-consensus-feceead50641
A consensus object is one such *building block* forming the core of a universal construction which
provides a *linearizable wait-free implementation* of any other object given its sequential specification. 

After all,
the difficulty of distributed computation comes from the absence of common knowledge
about the system and consensus gives us just that — common knowledge.

A **process** is a sequential thread of control and its events model interactions with objects — an **invoke** event corresponds to the invocation of an operation
on an object and a **receive** event corresponds to the receipt of a response from an object.

An **object** is a data structure shared by processes and its events model invocations of operations by processes — an **invoke** event
corresponds to the invocation of an operation and a **respond** event corresponds to the response.
An operation is therefore delimited by two events — the invocation and the response.

The invoke event on a process is an output event — an outgoing communication, while the invoke event on an object is an input event — an incoming communication

Under these circumstances, we can regard an object as a state machine with a transition function `δ`, such that `δ(s,op(args))` — given a state
and an invocation of an operation — returns a pair consisting of a new state `s’` and a value res to return to the calling process.
The sequential specification can then be defined as a set of *pre-conditions* and *post-conditions* on object states before and after the execution of operations.

An implementation is lock free if at least one thread is guaranteed to make progress.
Use of a lock makes this guarantee impossible — if two threads are contending for a resource, and the one who acquires it first stalls, the second thread will be deadlocked.
> 解释使用lock 为什么不是lock free 的? 希望含有更加format的定义

Wait-freedom is a stronger progress condition which guarantees that each process can *make progress* in a finite number of steps regardless of the behavior of other processes.

In what follows, we will consider *wait-free implementations* of an object based on another object.

*Progress conditions* are a particularly important consideration in a distributed system,
where independent failures are more common and the scheduler may consist of multiple disparate components.

And a lock-based procedure relies on the scheduler to provide starvation-freedom,
by ensuring that processes eventually leave the critical section. Wait-freedom is therefore starvation-freedom in presence of failures.

In order to be able to transfer the correctness of a *sequential system* to a *concurrent system*, we must define a *correctness condition* for concurrent objects.

A consensus object is a *concurrent object* with a single operation *propose* which behaves in accordance with the following sequential specification:
> @todo proose 的含义
> concurrent object 的定义 ?


A consensus object must adhere to the following conditions:
- Consistency: all processes invoking the consensus object receive the same value.
- Integrity: the value returned by the consensus object is a value proposed by some process.
- Termination: the operation is wait-free.


Herein, it allows us to establish that a universal construction can wait-free implement any other object.

An object is universal if it can implement any other object given a sequential specification,
and this implementation is both wait-free and linearizable. Such implementations are called **universal constructions**.
> 使用通用的方法，将各种条件翻译为 wait free 和 linearizable 的

The following is a universal construction due to Michel Raynal and it is based on the [state-machine replication paradigm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_machine_replication)

Each process maintains a *copy* of the *constructed object*, and uses *consensus object* to keep the copies consistent.
The construction consists of two parts— the operation and a background helper process.
The operation assigns the proposal and waits for the background process to assign a result.
The background process runs in a loop, checking if a proposal has been assigned.
If it has, then it *sends that proposal to a consensus object* which *returns the first received proposal for that round*.
The proposal itself consists of the operation and its arguments, and the proposing process.
The background process then executes the *state machine transition function* on the latest state and the proposed operation.
Each process keeps a local copy of the state and the consensus protocol ensures that operations are applied to local states in the same order.
**As such, all processes have a common view of the object.**
If the proposal that was returned by the consensus object is from the calling process, we assign the result so that it operation can return it to the caller.

> to read
1. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Input/output_automaton

每个线程在执行一次方法调用（apply）时，先在表头增加一个描述本次调用的新结点，然后从表尾到
表头重放（replay）日志，对该对象的私有拷贝依次执行方法调用、计算响应.
> 首先每一个 thread apply


试图访问的线程先创建一个结点来保存其方法调用。然后，并发线程相互竞争，
通过执行一个 n 线程共识协议，来决定将哪一个结点加入日志头。
该共识协议的输入是对这些方法调用结点的引用，而输出则是唯一获胜的结点

日志的头元素是 head 数组所指向结点中具有最大序号的结点
> 所以，到底什么是日志啊? 形成的链表吗 ?
> 为什么需要日志 ?

> 开始的时候，所有的head 指向 tail 

所有访问通用对象的线程都执行以下相同的调用程序。decideNext 对象决定
获胜的线程，并将获胜线程的 node 加入日志。所有参与本次竞争的线程都将head
数组中各自对应的元素更新为指向获胜者的结点。

Node::max 是为了获取日志头.
decideNext : 线程竞争，决定获胜者
> consensus protocol 中间提供了两个方法，一个propose 提交自己的判断，一个 decide 确定共识结果
> decide 函数，无论是谁来进行调用，都会得到相同的结果

一个线程准备把自己的结点添加到日志中但又不断失败的唯一可能就是其
它线程不断地将其结点成功添加到日志中。因为存在线程被饿死的可能，该构造
不是无等待的。



每个线程通过重放日志来计算响应。由于日
志是确定的、不会被篡改，每个线程一定能返回正确的响应。需要强调的是，while 
(prefer.seq == 0)循环中的 head[i] = after 语句非常重要。它保证了每个线程对每个
结点的共识对象最多只访问一次
