# Monitors and Blocking Synchronization
> 分析了 monitor rwlock reentrant 和 信号量 of java

## 8.1 Introduction
Monitors are a structured way of combining synchronization and data

If a thread tries to enqueue an item to a queue that is already full, then the enq()
method itself can detect the problem, suspend the caller, and resume the caller
when the queue has room.

## 8.2 Monitor Locks and Conditions
Often, it makes sense to combine
spinning and blocking: a thread waiting to dequeue an item might spin for a brief
duration, and then switch to blocking if the delay appears to be long. Blocking
works on both multiprocessors and uniprocessors, while spinning works only on
multiprocessors.

#### 8.2.1 Condition
> condition 和 lock 挂钩
> 1. wait 释放lock
> 2. 重入获取lock
> 3. notify

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-a-thread-can-interrupt-an-another-thread-in-java/

Like locks, Condition objects must be used in a stylized way. Suppose a thread
wants to wait until a certain property holds. The thread tests the property while
holding the lock. If the property does not hold, then the thread calls await() to
release the lock and sleep until it is awakened by another thread. Here is the key
point: there is no guarantee that the property will hold at the time the thread
awakens. The await() method can return spuriously (i.e., for no reason), or the
thread that signaled the condition may have awakened too many sleeping threads.
Whatever the reason, the thread must retest the property,
and if it finds the property still does not hold, it must call await() again.
> condition 使用范式


#### 8.2.2 The Lost-Wakeup Problem

## 8.3 Readers–Writers Locks

#### 8.3.1 Simple Readers–Writers Lock

#### 8.3.2 Fair Readers–Writers Lock
Writers hold this lock
from the time they try to acquire the write lock to the time they release it. This
locking protocol ensures that once a writer has acquired the lock, no additional
reader can increment readAcquires, so no additional reader can acquire the
read lock, and eventually all readers currently holding the read lock will release
it, allowing the writer to proceed
> 一旦writer 尝试获取锁，那么立刻停止

## 8.4 Our Own Reentrant Lock
> 利用普通的lock 实现了Reentrant Lock
