# Distributed System : Fault tolerance


introduction :

process resilience : A specifically difficult point in process groups is reaching consensus among the group members on which a client-requested operation is to perform.
notably atomic multicasting

- Availability : 描述可用的时间
- Reliability : 描述连续工作时间
- Safety :  
- Maintainability : 失败了，但是会快速的恢复


Note 8.1 中间介绍了几种传统的评价方法。


- fail : A system is said to fail when it cannot meet its promises
- error : An error is a part of a system’s state that may lead to a failure.
- fault : The cause of an error is called a fault.

Faults are generally classified as transient, intermittent, or permanent. Transient faults occur once and then disappear.

A typical example of a crash failure is an operating system that comes to a grinding halt, and for which there is only one solution: reboot it.


## 8.2 Process resilience
- The first topic we discuss is protection against **process failures,** which is achieved by replicating processes into groups.
- In the following pages, we consider the general design issues of process groups and discuss what a fault-tolerant group actually is.
- Also, we look at how to reach consensus within a process group when one or more of its members cannot be trusted to give correct answers.


Three kinds are possible: information redundancy, time redundancy, and physical redundancy.

As discussed in the previous chapter,
there are two ways to approach such replication: by means of primary-based
protocols, or through replicated-write protocols.

Replicated-write protocols are used in the form of active replication, as well as by means of *quorum-based protocols*.

To understand why this algorithm is correct, it is important to realize that
a process will move to a next round without having made a decision, only
when it detects that another process has failed.

Example: Paxos
## 8.6 Recovery

#### 8.6.1 Introduction

#### 8.6.2 Checkpointing
In coordinated checkpointing all processes synchronize to jointly write their
state to local storage
> 一个人发送消息，其他人接受消息，然后接收到消息的人开始制作checkpoint
> 并且将其他的消息都缓存起来，并且不在发送消息。
> 1. 显然消息不可能瞬间到达的，那么什么样子的内容就是可以称之为checkpoint 的啊 ! (标准是 : checkpoint 收集的内容是，不会出现一个发送，而另一个没有接收到的情况)

The reason for this is that any message that follows a request for
taking a checkpoint is not considered to be part of the local checkpoint.
> 只要有结果，必有原因

#### Message logging

> 后面的内容还讲到了孤儿进程之类的的东西
