# Directory Coherence Protocols
<!-- skip Section 8.3 through Section 8.7 -->
## 8.1 INTRODuCTION TO DIRECTORY PROTOCOLS
Coherence transactions typically involve
either two steps (a unicast request, followed by a unicast response) or three steps (a unicast request,
K≥ 1 forwarded requests, and K responses, where K is the number of sharers)

Snooping coherence transactions thus always involve two steps (a broadcast request, followed by a unicast response)

Like snooping protocols, a directory protocol needs to define **when and how coherence transactions become ordered with respect to other transactions.**

Using the directory as the ordering point represents another key difference between directory
protocols and snooping protocols. Traditional snooping protocols create a total order by serializing
all transactions on the ordered broadcast network.
> fuck, 需要回顾Table7.4 显然我是没有理解total order以及　实现的细节的

In contrast, a directory protocol orders transactions at the directory to ensure that conflicting
requests are processed by all nodes in per-block order. However, the lack of a total order means that
a requestor in a directory protocol needs another strategy to determine when its request has been
serialized and thus when its coherence epoch may safely begin
> 似乎per-block order是和Total order相对应起来的

 However, the lack of a total order means that
a requestor in a directory protocol needs another strategy to determine when its request has been
serialized and thus when its coherence epoch may safely begin.
Because (most) directory protocols
do not use totally ordered broadcast, there is no global notion of serialization. Rather, a request must
be individually serialized with respect to all the caches that (may) have a copy of the block. Explicit
messages are needed to notify the requestor that its request has been serialized by each **relevant**
cache
> 对于Total Order毫无理解可言
> 为什么仅仅使用relevant的内容就可以了

A directory protocol achieves greater scalability (i.e., because it requires less
bandwidth) at the cost of a level of indirection (i.e., having three steps, instead of two steps, for
some transactions).

## 8.2 BASELINE DIRECTORY SYSTEM
One restriction on the interconnection network that we
assume in this chapter is that it enforces point-to-point ordering
### 8.2.2 High-Level Protocol Specification
> Figure8.2 妙啊

Most of the transactions are fairly straightforward,
but two transactions merit further discussion here.
1. The first is the transaction that occurs when a cache is trying to upgrade permissions
from I or S to M and the directory state is S
2. The second transaction that merits further discussion occurs when a cache is trying to evict a
block in state M

*The PutM transaction in this directory protocol differs from what occurred in the snooping protocol, in which a PutM did not carry data*
> 不应该啊，snooping的PutM为什么就可以不提交数据，被修改过的cache的数据不需要写会到Memory中间吗？肯定是需要的，但是方法是什么样的?

### 8.2.3 Avoiding Deadlock

### 8.2.4 Detailed Protocol Specification

### 8.2.5 Protocol Operation
> skip 这一个展示了某些

### 8.2.6 Protocol Simplifications
1. The most significant simplification, other than having only three stable states, is that the
protocol stalls in certain situations
2. A second simplification is that the directory sends Data (and the AckCount) in response to
a cache that is changing a block’s state from S to M
> stall 到处都见到过，但是一直没有被好好总结过。

### 8.8 Case Studies
