## part 1
https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/oekYi7J0bgTgX7f-DIFjxQ

命名空间文件句柄引用、移除 bcachefs、启用在线 XFS fsck、改进 io_uring 与 UDP 性能、支持多 LSM 并行、安全签名 BPF 程序、virtio SPI 驱动、新增 Rust 原子操作与 API、引入 kmalloc_nolock()、要求 LLVM≥15。

Kernel namespaces (such as network namespaces) can now be referred to using file handles. The use of file handles to refer to pidfds was previously supported; this change extends that support to namespaces.

(哦，是 namespaces fd)

Mixed completion queue event (CQE) sizes are now supported in the same ring buffer. With io_uring's growing complexity, users may want to query for the presence of different capabilities; that is also now supported.

(**什么意思**)

pwritev2() calls can now pass RWF_NOSIGNAL to suppress SIGPIPE signals when writing to disconnected pipes or sockets.
(终于，好的方向)

A new set of lockless bitmaps will improve the performance of the filesystems that use them.
(TODO)

The work on AccECN, for accurate TCP congestion notification, has been merged.

The direct internal buffer sharing (dibs) work that was discussed at Netdev 0x19 has been merged.

The WQ_UNBOUND workqueue flag is being retired in favor of a WQ_PERCPU flag with the opposite meaning, since many callers were using a per-CPU workqueue when a global workqueue would have sufficed.
(什么意思)

The work on sheaves, which improves the performance of the slab allocator, has arrived.
(sheaves 需要看看)

The new kmalloc_nolock() allows for allocation with no additional locks taken, a capability that prompted significant discussion on the mailing list.
(什么意思)

## part 2
https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/TmtkzjLzu2hR9UXba_hV1g

KVM 支持 Intel/AMD CET 虚拟化；SEV-SNP 加密增强

6.18 预计将成为下一个 LTS 版本。

User-mode Linux (UML) now supports sparse interrupts to better support the interrupt KUnit tests.
(什么是 sparse interrupts)

Calls to umount() should no longer provoke quadratic behavior when a mount contains many other mounts.
(什么是  quadratic behavior)

A new device-mapper target (dm-pcache) can use persistent memory as a cache for slower block devices.
(尝试一下，不过我记得 dm 下本来就是有一个类似 bcache 么?)


x86 hosts can now enable SEV-SNP CipherText Hiding, which prevents unauthorized CPU accesses from reading the ciphertext of secure nested paging (SNP) guests' private memory.
(TODO)

KVM supports virtualizing control-flow enforcement technology (CET) on Intel (in the form of shadow stacks and indirect branch tracking) and AMD (in the form of shadow stacks) chips. While shadow stacks and indirect branch tracking can theoretically be enabled separately, in practice that has performance problems, so KVM will enable both if either one is requested.
(TODO)

The DMA-mapping API continues the migration to physical addresses as the primary interface, rather than page pointers and offsets. The patch set gives the justification, and another commit in this series shows a sample conversion.

The work to support memory descriptors continues; the kernel now has a new memdesc_flags_t structure to separate out the flags from slab and folio structures.

The work on huge zero folios has been merged.

There were also ten new kfuncs added: bpf_dynptr_from_skb_meta(), bpf_kfunc_multi_st_ops_test_1(), bpf_kfunc_ret_rcu_test(), bpf_kfunc_ret_rcu_test_nostruct(), bpf_strcasecmp(), bpf_task_work_schedule_resume(), bpf_task_work_schedule_signal(), bpf_xdp_pull_data(), scx_bpf_cpu_curr(), and scx_bpf_locked_rq().
(似乎现在还没完全理解 kfuncs 的含义，这是 bpf 程序可以直接调用的东西吗?)

## 总结
1. 应该尝试 amd 机器下的 sep ，毕竟是和 kvm 工作到一起的，现在想想，这个 sev 工作还是相当有意思的
加密加速器，然后和虚拟化放到一起，又是和 CPU 中的加速器

<script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
        data-repo="martins3/martins3.github.io"
        data-repo-id="MDEwOlJlcG9zaXRvcnkyOTc4MjA0MDg="
        data-category="Show and tell"
        data-category-id="MDE4OkRpc2N1c3Npb25DYXRlZ29yeTMyMDMzNjY4"
        data-mapping="pathname"
        data-reactions-enabled="1"
        data-emit-metadata="0"
        data-theme="light"
        data-lang="zh-CN"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>

本站所有文章转发 **CSDN** 将按侵权追究法律责任，其它情况随意。
