---
title: "19-11-29 weekly notes"
date: 2019-11-23T15:19:47+08:00
draft: true
categories: [hn]
---


## Perspectives and News
- [The bus ticket theory of genius](http://paulgraham.com/genius.html)

Genius, Alice is genius for Bob, but maybe regarded as mediocre by Cathy.
If he can beat you with intelligence instead of more time or concentration,

- [Tiktok : cheerfulness and censorship](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21619098)

About three or four years ago, the mainland of Chain government instruct the Apple inc to store all the data locally.
Everyone complaint that a wall to bigger was constructed. Contrarily, Americans are much more aware of the risk.
The world is not symmetric.

- [KiCad Joins Linux Foundation to Advance Electronic Design Automation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press-release/2019/11/kicad-joins-linux-foundation-to-advance-electronic-design-automation/)

Wow, Linux Foundation is bigger than I expected!
An important open source project and let's congratulate to those who pretend working on domestic product.


- [Google should drop Quora from search result](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21622322)

> Quora back in 2011 was magical.

Evidence never fail my instinct.

- [shipping a compiler every six weeks](https://www.pietroalbini.org/blog/shipping-a-compiler-every-six-weeks/)

> Rust is the only compiler except for browsers that’s sort of popular and has a six-week release cycle. In the compiler world that’s pretty fast, but there is a simple reason why we do that: we have no pressure to ship things.

- [Front end engineer transition to ML/AI engineer](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21623942)

I used to sneer at machine learning that what is sold as the online course is garbage for graduates.
The contempt is sign of mixer of fear, envy and irritation of someone's showing off.
In fact, the difference of separate subjects is subtle and don't take it for granted that we will stick on one area for decades until retire.

## Books && open source && tutorials
- [Hard Problems in Cryptocurrency: Five Years Later](https://vitalik.ca/general/2019/11/22/progress.html)(valuable)

The problems are broken down into three categories: 

1. cryptographic, and hence expected to be solvable with purely mathematical techniques if they are to be solvable at all, 
2. consensus theory, largely improvements to proof of work and proof of stake, and 
3. economic, and hence having to do with creating structures involving incentives given to different participants, and often involving the application layer more than the protocol layer. We see significant progress in all categories, though some more than others.

- [Interactive linear algebra textbook](https://textbooks.math.gatech.edu/ila/)

With the rise of deep learning, the linear algebra now is transformed to new linkedlist for cs students.
Four years ago, I believed that fundamental is valuable. With this creed, so much time had been wasted on some ridiculous profound plans.
A linear algebra textbook of thousand pages was threw into book shelf after hours of ambitions.

- [Neat rust tricks passing rust closures to C](https://blog.seantheprogrammer.com/neat-rust-tricks-passing-rust-closures-to-c)

> One of Rust’s biggest selling points is how well it can interoperate with C.

- [](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21631116)

Computer architecture course, focusing on memory. Diffusion of technique isn't controlled the source, but by the end.

https://safari.ethz.ch/architecture/fall2019/doku.php?id=schedule

- [Mindustry](https://github.com/Anuken/Mindustry)

An open source and cross-platform game which sold at steam with price of 26 yuan. Worth a try !


recapitulate

authoritarian
totalitarian
dictatorship

## Contemplation && Reflection
To get rid of LoL is a long and torturing struggle, after erasing and installing Windows so many times, I finally take control of myself.
But same tragedy seems going to happened again !
I had played the Dota unremittingly for about five hours, although much shorter than records of LoL.
Now, I'm step into another swamp.

Subscribed videos, gossips, games and all other kind of stupid entertainments has no positive impact on what we concentrate.
So, why we still need it ? The reason is plain, because we want to be happy ! Work or learning something require concentration and musing which is 
energy consuming.

Psychology has long been ignored and it's time to take advantage of it ! I can't figure out a efficient way to reduce my passion.
Weeks ago, I think social media is cure for my boring and solitude life, but in fact a important property that only top valued entities has
the chance to communicate with others. The communications also turned into counseling.
What, you need some non-technological communications to spare time when having no power will to work! There are all kinds dating applications such as tinder.

Fear which protects me, push me to get what are not supposed to me is now destroying me !  Uncertainty is growing at exponent rate after leaving the high school,
but the fear in my heart doesn't reconstruct the model we treat the brave new world.
You will get what you deserved or the society is unfair, but you sometimes you can get something better if you are fearless.
Until today, frustration of failure is scaring me with any reasons or evidence. I fear of being criticized by others, even they are strangers in the games.
Others' critics, rejection, and complains should be processed rationally before taking it into seriously.
We should ask the following questions. What's the intensity ? It's legitimate or just a exorbitant demand ? If I don't meet it, what's the consequence ?

So, what's conclusions ? I want to do something let me enjoy the failure and others' hostility !

Another long-term afflicting defect of personality, we try to solve every problem with endeavor.
What if we can set up some practical plans that we can finished, so that we can take advantage of our resource more efficiently ?
