# Distributed System : Naming

## 5.1 Names, identifiers, and addresses

These examples illustrate that a name for an entity that is independent
from its addresses is often much easier and more flexible to use. Such a name
is called location independent.

Having names, identifiers, and addresses brings us to the central theme of
this chapter: how do we resolve names and identifiers to addresses?

In the following sections we will consider three different classes of naming
systems.
First, we will take a look at how identifiers can be resolved to
addresses. In this case, we will also see an example where name resolution
is actually indistinguishable from message routing. After that, we consider
human-friendly names and descriptive names (i.e., entities that are described
by a collection of names).

## 5.2 Flat naming
flat : identifiers 就像是随机的，

1. simple solution 就是 broadcast 和 forwarding.
2. homebased

The home-based approach is used as a fall-back mechanism for location
services based on forwarding pointers.

用来移动IP网络作为例子。

3. Distributed hash tables

Chord uses an m-bit identifier space to assign randomly chosen identifiers to nodes as
well as keys to specific entities.
> entities 在 m-bit 空间中间随机获取一个名称。

An entity with *key k* falls under the jurisdiction of the node with the smallest identifier *id ≥ k*.
> identifier 的数值也是含有total order 的

The main issue in DHT-based systems is to efficiently resolve a key k to the address of succ(k).

Obviously, the complexity comes from keeping the finger tables up-to-date.

> DHT 因为，在 identifier 空间中间，变成了类似于skip list 的东西，来实现快速查找。

In Chord, such requests are issued regularly by means of a background process.

4. Hierarchical approaches

In a hierarchical scheme, a network is divided into a collection of domains.
There is a single top-level domain that spans the entire network.

> 对于一个 entity 每一个级别都含有其信息，但是指向的位置不同。

## 5.3 Structured naming
Flat names are good for machines, but are generally not very convenient
for humans to use. As an alternative, naming systems generally support
structured names that are composed from simple, human-readable names.
Not only file naming, but also host naming on the Internet follows this
approach.
> 看来对于flat name 理解 : 以为flat 导致机器更加难以管理的。

> 直接完全跳过，感觉处理的内容就是 DNS 以及 FS 之类的事情。

## 5.4 Attribute-based naming
In this approach,
an entity is assumed to have an associated collection of attributes. Each
attribute says something about that entity.


directory service
Hierarchical implementations: LDAP (似乎熟悉的内容)
Decentralized implementations




